Women empowerment consists of a major role of women by standing for themselves, making their presence valuable in society, 
and participating in decision making. Society plays a bigger role by considering their decisions equally important and providing them hand-holding 
when they need support. 

In earlier times, men were considered to be the leading members of the family, and women were assigned to households only. 
There was no involvement of women in decision-making. 
The idea that stereotypical gender roles defined centuries ago need to be shattered, be it outside the house or in it. The idea of ideal feminism is
that we should not and cannot define how someone else has to lead their life.
But none of them is focused on empowering women.

During the pandemic, women have typically been the first in India to lose their jobs and the last to regain them. 
School shutdowns have forced some to drop out of the labor force to look after children who would normally be in class.
 Young women who have been unable to study, train, or work during the pandemic are being married off instead.
 Whereas women in other countries often withdraw from the workforce when burdened with a child, women in India 
drop out when burdened with a husband.Women spend more time performing unpaid work, such as childcare and housework, than men. 
Dropping out of the labor force is a status symbol for upwardly mobile households, showing they can get by on
 the husband’s earnings alone.
But the dearth of working women in India is not simply a reflection of cultural preferences. 
Many women on the sidelines of the economy are not there by choice. 
They say they would like to work if they could. Were they all to get their wish, it would add over 100m women to the 
workforce, by one calculation. 
That is more than the total number of workers, male and female, in France, Germany, and Italy combined.

Fact: Globally, over 2.7 billion women are legally restricted from having the same choice of jobs as men. In India, women 
account for only 19.9% of the total labor force. 

Another reason why there is less number of working women in India is sexual harassment. Everyone thinks of harassment as trivial. 
“Just ignore,” is what everyone says. If it becomes too much, then it is better to report because the more you tolerate it, the more it happens. 
But poverty and stigma are a reason they take a step back. 
There is no place safe for women, not workplaces, nor homes, and not even the roads.
In 1992, Bhanwari Devi, a government social worker in the north Indian state of Rajasthan, was gang-raped in front 
of her husband by higher-caste neighbors angered by her efforts to stop child marriage in their family.

Activists filed a public interest petition in the Supreme Court demanding that “workplaces must be made safe for women 
and that it should be the responsibility of the employer to protect women employees at every step.” Acting on the petition 
in 1997, the Supreme Court of India set out the “Vishaka Guidelines,” mandating that 
employers take steps to protect female employees from sexual harassment at the workplace and provide procedures for 
resolution, settlement, or prosecution to protect workers in both formal and informal sectors.

The act was a significant legislative step for India but most women workers in the country, especially those in the informal sector,
the law exists only on paper. Government enforcement of this law is so poor that if the attack against Bhanwari Devi happened today,
she would still be unlikely to get justice.


90% of employees who experience harassment never file a formal complaint, 75% never complain to their employers either. 
Instead either they change their job or never apply for another one.
There was one incident that happened in my family that changed my perspective completely.
"He knew who she was. The girl who had been sexually assaulted. She expected to be safe next to him.
But if your thinking is on that level then it doesn't matter what the other person means to you. And who knows what was going on in his mind, 
even she didn't know. Once, he was sleeping with his mother on the bed and she felt like she could also sleep with them without harm/danger. 
The night was cozy, what happened that night after his mother fell asleep was something she could have ever imagined of. 
He tried on her forcefully, but she managed to get out of that situation immediately. After that night, she could never trust him. 
She didn't expose him in front of anyone. She was none other than his sister." All that happened was a nightmare to her which she couldn't forget.



Conclusion: 
Almost half of 46.9% of the female population in the entire world consists of working women and the fact that women constitute half the entire population
of the country makes empowering them to be an active part of all development initiatives in the country a compelling circumstance. 
India could boost its growth by 1.5 percentage points to 9 percent per year if 50% of women could join the workforce.
Hence, this article calls for the strong commitment of the government to empower women and utilize 
all the potentials of the country to bring about sustainable development.

"Human rights are women's right and women's right are human right"
